Hello everyone.
And welcome back.
So we've seen about one very important data structure available in pandas library, Series
data structure of one dimensional data structure.
Now we are going to learn about one of the very important core data structure of pandas like a data
frame.
So let's see about what is data frame.
So data frame in a pond as is somewhat inherited concept from other statistical based programming language
like our programming language are you an Oracle database also having a concept like a date offering
so data free is nothing but a two dimensional data structure.
So earlier we have seen that individual single columns represent the cities.
You know you can say any tabular kind of data.
Now in the case of this needle frame kind of data structure or a data frame kind of object we have a
might people call Saturday but so data frame is like an you can consider like a table in a sequel database
or a tabular kind of way to represent the data.
So it's a two dimensional data type 2 dimensional I would say that labor data so every single number
in a data frame has been represented by the two numbers that it lies in which particular hurdle and
which particular column.
So here individual row is equivalent to the individual a record.
So each and every value corresponding to which particular records and lies in which particular column.
Now compared to other cities data structure which is required of one reference point to represent any
particular value.
So if you want to get any particular value in a case of cities you just need a one number varies.
Now in the case of this kind of data frame kind of object in that case to get any particular value so
let's say this to 38.
So 230 lies in a six through I would say or a six number of records and it lies in to meet column or
the column name is let's say Jen.
So every single value can be referenced with the two different numbers so tabular visual of representation
is nothing but bad data framing upon us.
And it is one of the very important core data structure available in a bind us.
And every time community people do use while applying any machine learning algorithm or any kind of
further analytics that is an algorithm before that it has to be presented in such a kind of format for
need up any processing kind of steps or data leading kind of steps.
So what we are going to learn through this whole sexting so we'll start with the creation of this data
frame.
So we generate some random number and create the data from all of we created a different from some external
file system like a comma separated file order tab separate file.
Once we have a data frame has been created we'll see what other attributes and in matters we can apply
on top of it.
We'll see how to apply this blame method on individual flaws or individual columns of this data him
and how to apply the map to indexing mechanism.
So here we have a multiple indexing like you can use like a single label indexing also.
So rolling an indexing column and indexing plus multiple indexing will see how to handling the missing
valuing the data frame how to fill the missing value once you are identified that these are the missing
value and how to extract individual value.
So there are a number of ways and number of mechanisms that are really able to extract each individual
value with a two different reference point and in place parameter.
And there are many more concepts that are associated with that data and we are going to see in this
recovery section.
So I hope you are excited and let's get started from the next video we'll start creating a very simple
data frame kind of object.
We delegate this spineless label.